 a. Analyze the single bus architecture with a neat diagram and write the sequence of control
steps to execute the instruction ADD R1, R2, R3   
 b. Analyze the multiple bus architecture with a neat/diagram and write the sequence of control steps to execute the instruction ADD r1,r2,r3 
 c. List the remote functionality of home telemetry system. 
 a. Discuss the following in detail:
(i)NUMA processor
(ii)UMA processor,  
 b. With a neat diagram, explain the working of a digital camera. 
 c: Compare Hardwired control unit with micro-programmed a control unit. 
 Draw and explain multiple bus organization» Explain its advantages. 
 Write and explain the control sequence for, execution of an unconditional branch instruction. 
 Draw the block diagram of the: control unit organization and describe: 
 Explain basic idea of instruction pipelining. ' 
 Explain single-bus organization of the data-path inside a processor with neat diagram.

 Write the control sequence for execution of the instruction Add (R3), R; in the execution of a complete instruction, 
 Write short notes on :
(i) Hardwired control
(ii) Micro programmed control. 
 With block diagram, explain the working of a microwave oven, 
 With neat diagram, explain single-bus organization of computer and fundamental concepts.

 State the steps required in execution of Add (R3), R1 and explain the execution of branch instruction. 
 OR’
Explain the information required to generate control signals and structure of micro programmed control unit. 
 Explain basic idea of pipe line and stage pipeline structs, 
 With a neat diagram explain three bus organization of the datapath. 
 With a neat diagram, explain block diagram of a complete processor. 
 Explain with a neat diagram, Organization of the ‘datapath inside a processor. 
 With a neat diagram, explain a simple micro controller. 
 Explain microwave oven with a neat diagram. 
 Explain with a neat diagram, processor chips of an embedded processor. 
 Write and explain the control sequence for execution of the instruction Add(R3), R1 .

 Explain the three-bus organization of the data path. 
 Briefly explain Hardwired’control and micro programmed control. 
 What is pipeline? Explaim.4 stages of pipeline with, its instruction execution steps and
hardware organization. — 
 Discuss with neat diagram, the single bus organization of the data path inside a processor. (1
 Write the sequence of control steps required for single bus structure for each if the following
instructions.
i) Add the contents of memory location NUM to register R1.
ii) Add the contents of memory locatiom whose address is at memory location NUM to
register-R1. 
 Explain the following:
i) Hard-wired control
ii) | Microprogrammed control. 
 What is pipeline? Explain the 4 stages pipeline) with its instruction execution steps and
hardware organization. 
 Explain Flynn’s classification of computers. 
 With neat diagram, explain attached array processor. 
 Explain how the following expression is evaluated in pipelined mode:
Ai *Bi+Ci for i=1,2,....7 
 With neat diagram, explain SIMD array processor organization. 
 With neat flow diagram, explain four-segment CPU pipeline. 
 Writethe Sequence of operations:for the following Doloop.
Do 20 I=1,100
20 C[I] = B[I] + A[I] 
 With a neat diagram explain three bus organization of the datapath. 
 With a neat diagram, explain block diagram of a complete processor. 
 Explain with a neat diagram, Organization of the ‘datapath inside a processor. 
 ey OR
With a neat diagram, explain a simple micro controller. 
 Explain microwave oven with a neat diagram. 
 Explain with aneat diagram, processor chips of an embedded processor. 
 With a neat diagram explain three bus organization of the datapath. 
 With a neat diagram, explain block diagram of a complete processor. 
 Explain with a neat diagram, Organization of the ‘datapath inside a processor. 
 ey OR
With a neat diagram, explain a simple micro controller. 
 Explain microwave oven with a neat diagram. 
 Explain with aneat diagram, processor chips of an embedded processor. 
