 3 a. Explain the working of; the Direct Memory Access (DMA) controller  in detail. Also, with the supporting diagram, explain different registers in a DMA interface. 
 . Explain centralized and distributed BUS Arbitration, with diagrams. 
 c. Explain how interrupt requests from several input/output ‘devices can be communicated to a processor using Daisy Chain Mechanism , 
 4 a. Using the timing diagram of an input Data Transfer and the Handshake scheme, explain the input operation on an asynchronous BUS, , 
 b. Draw the block diagram of- universal serial. BUS structure connected to the host computer. Briefly explain all fields’ of packets that are used for communication between a host and a device connected to a USB port. > 
 c. Explain with a block diagram the , <i to processor connection in parallel port.
 3 a. What is direct memory access, when it is used? Explain it with block diagram. 
 . Define the terms ‘cycle stealing” and ‘burst mode with respect to DMA. 
 c. Define bus arbitration. Explain in detail centralized bus arbitration. 
 °. OR
4 a. With a block diagram, explain how the keyboard is connected to processor. 
 b. Explain the use of a PCI bus in a computer system with a neat sketch. 
 c. What are the design objectives of USB? ; 
 What is an interrupt? With supporting diagram, explain the following :
(i) Interrupt Nesting
(ii) Simultaneous request 
 What do you mean by DMA? Explain its operations using registers in a DMA interface.
 What are exceptions? List and explain the different kinds of exceptions. 
 What is Bus Arbitration? Explain centralized and distributed arbitration with a neat diagram.

 Explain the following with respect to USB:
(i) USB Architecture (ii) USB Addressing 
 3 a. Explain interrupt and interrupt hardware. State steps. in enabling and disabling interrupts.
 b, Explain interrupt nesting and handling simultaneous requests in interrupts. 
 4 a. Explain DMA transfer with bus arbitration. 
 b. Explain USB tree structure and protocols. % 
 With a neat sketch explain (DMA) Direct Memory Access. 
 Explain the following with respect to USB
i) USB Addressing
ii) USB Protocols. 
 What is an interrupt with an example explain concept of interrupts. 
 With a neat diagram, explain general 8-bit parallel interface circuit. 
 Explain with a neat diagram, PCI bus in a computer S/M. 
 With neat sketches, explain Various methods for handling interrupts raised by multiple
devices. 
 ‘What is DMA Bus arbitration? Explain different but arbitration techniques. 
 OR '
Explain synchronous bus and asynchronous bus with neat diagrams. 
 With the help of timing diagram explain the read operation on the PCI bus. 
 3 a. With neatdiagram, explain various methods for handling multiple interrupts requests raised by multiple devices. 
 b. What.is DMA Bus Arbitration? Briefly explain different:bus arbitration techniques.
 4 a. What is an interrupt? What are interrupt service routine and what are vector interrupts?Explain with example. é 
 b. Explain the following with respect to USB:
i) U.S.B. Architecture
iil) U.S.B. protocols. 
 With neat diagram, explain interrupt operation. 
 What is DMA? Showing the possible register configurations in DMA interface. Explain
DMA. 
 With neat timing diagram, explain synchronous input transfer. 
 Explain how interrupt requests from several IO devices can be communicated to a processor
through a single INTR line. 
 With a neat block diagram, explain how a keyboard is connected to a processor. 
 Compare serial and parallel interface. 
 With a neatsketch explain (DMA) Direct Memory Access. 
 Explain the following with respect to USB
i) USB Addressing
1i) USB Protocols. 
 What is an interrupt with an example éxplain concept of interrupts. 
 With a neat.diagram, explain general 8-bit parallel interface circuit. 
 Explain with aneat diagram, PCI bus in a computer S/M. 
 With a neatsketch explain (DMA) Direct Memory Access. 
 Explain the following with respect to USB
i) USB Addressing
1i) USB Protocols. 
 What is an interrupt with an example éxplain concept of interrupts. 
 With a neat.diagram, explain general 8-bit parallel interface circuit. 
 Explain with aneat diagram, PCI bus in a computer S/M. 
