module_1

1. Define addressing mode and explain any four addressing modes with examples.
2. Explain the following addressing modes with examples: 
   (i) Indirect mode 
   (ii) Index mode 
   (iii) Relative mode 
   (iv) Auto increment mode.
3. Explain one address, two address, and three address instructions with examples.
1. What is performance and explain the basic performance equation?
2. Explain processor clock and clock rate.
3. What is performance measurement and explain overall SPEC rating for the computer in a program suite.
1. With a neat diagram, explain the basic operational concepts of a computer.
2. With a neat diagram, analyze the basic operational concept of a computer and give the operational steps.
1. Draw and explain the connections between the processor and the main memory.
2. Draw single bus structure and discuss about memory mapped I/O.
3. Write a note on processor clock and clock rate.
1. Explain Big-Endian and Little-Endian methods with examples.
2. Explain Big Endian and Little Endian methods of byte addressing.
1. Write a program that can evaluate the expression ‘A x B + C x D‘ in a single accumulator processor.
2. Write a program to evaluate the arithmetic statement Y = (A+B) * (C+D) using three address, two address and one address instruction.
1. Explain shift and rotate operations with examples.
2. Explain various shift and rotate instructions with examples and diagrams.
Explain with a neat diagram, Big Endian and Little Endian.

 Additional Questions 
1. Explain basic input/output operations and write a program to read a character and print it on screen till newline is encountered.
2. Explain the Basic Instruction types with example and find the total time required to execute a program with given instruction distribution and clock cycles.
3. State and explain the possibilities of encoding of machine instruction of 32 bit word and how input and output operations are performed by the processor.
4. Determine if a new computer meets the SPEC rating requirement for purchase based on given test results.
5. Explain addressing modes and calculate the effective address of the source operand in given instructions.
6. Explain the different processor registers with a diagram.

module_2

1. What are the design objectives of USB?
2. Explain USB Architecture.
3. Explain USB Addressing.
4. Explain USB Protocols.
5. Explain the USB tree structure.
6. Draw the block diagram of the universal serial BUS structure connected to the host computer and explain the fields of packets used for communication.
1. What is an interrupt, explain with an example.
2. Explain interrupt and interrupt hardware, and state steps in enabling and disabling interrupts.
3. Explain interrupt nesting and handling simultaneous requests in interrupts.
4. Explain how interrupt requests from several input/output devices can be communicated to a processor using Daisy Chain Mechanism.
5. Explain interrupt operation with a diagram.
1. What is Bus Arbitration? Explain centralized and distributed arbitration.
2. Explain DMA transfer with bus arbitration and different bus arbitration techniques.
3. Define bus arbitration and explain centralized bus arbitration.
1. Explain the use of a PCI bus in a computer system with a neat sketch.
2. With the help of timing diagram explain the read operation on the PCI bus.
1. With a neat sketch explain (DMA) Direct Memory Access.
2. What is direct memory access, when it is used? Explain it with block diagram.
With a neat diagram, explain general 8-bit parallel interface circuit.
1. What are the methods for handling interrupts raised by multiple devices?
2. How can interrupt requests from several IO devices be communicated to a processor through a single INTR line?
1. Explain the working of the Direct Memory Access (DMA) controller in detail.
2. What do you mean by DMA and explain its operations using registers in a DMA interface.

 Additional Questions 
1. What are exceptions and list the different kinds of exceptions.
2. Explain synchronous and asynchronous bus.
3. Explain methods for handling multiple interrupts with a diagram.
4. What is DMA, explain with register configurations and timing diagram.
5. Compare serial and parallel interface, and explain parallel port connection to processor.
6. Define 'cycle stealing' and 'burst mode' with respect to DMA.
7. Explain how a keyboard is connected to a processor with a block diagram.

module_3

1. Explain the internal organization of a 16-Megabit dynamic RAM (DRAM) chip configured as 2Mx8 cells, with a diagram.
2. Explain the working of a 16 Megabit DRAM chip configured as 2M x 8, with a diagram.
3. Explain the working of a single transistor dynamic memory cell.
1. Explain direct mapping technique and set associative mapping technique.
2. Explain associative mapping and set associative mapping.
1. Define ROM
2. Explain various types of ROMs
1. What is cache memory? 
2. Explain the different mapping functions of cache memory. 
3. Explain direct and set associative mapping between cache and main memory.
Explain synchronous DRAMS with a block diagram.
1. Explain memory interleaving with a diagram.
2. What is virtual memory technique and explain virtual memory address translation with a diagram.
3. Explain how the translation lookaside buffer is used in implementing virtual memory with a block diagram.
Write a note on flash memory.
1. Explain the memory hierarchy with respect to speed, size, and cost, using a neat diagram.
2. Draw a neat diagram of the memory hierarchy in a contemporary computer system, indicating the relative variation of size, speed, and cost per bit.
Describe the organization of 2M x 32 memory using 512M x 8 memory chip.
With a neat diagram, explain design of 2M x 32 memory module using 1M x 8 memory chips.
1. State and explain the types of read only memory.
2. Discuss the memory hierarchy.
3. Analyze how data is written into Read Only Memory.

 Additional Questions 
1. Draw and explain the organization of a 1Kx1 memory cell and a 2M x 8 dynamic memory chip.
2. Define: 
   (i) Memory latency 
   (ii) Memory bandwidth 
   (iii) Hit-rate 
   (iv) Miss-penalty
3. Calculate disk storage parameters: 
   (i) Maximum number of bytes that can be stored 
   (ii) Data transfer rate in bytes per second
4. Explain memory interleaving and its diagram.
5. Describe the working of static RAM memories and ROM.
6. Explain the internal structure of ROM cell.
7. What is replacement policy and explain LRU replacement algorithm.

module_4

1. Write the rules for addition and subtraction of ‘n” bit signed integers using 2°s complement representation system.
2. Convert the following pairs of decimal numbers to 5-figure signed 2’s complement binary number and add them. State whether overflow has occurred:
   i) -5 and 7 
   ii) +10 and -13 
   iii) -14 and 11
3. Multiply each of the following pairs of signed 2’s complement number using the booth algorithm:
   i) A=010111 and B= 110110
   ii) A=110011 and B= 101100
   iii) A=110101 and B=011011
   iv) A=000111 and B=001111
4. Perform the following operations on the 5-bit signed numbers using 2’s complement representation system:
   i) (-10)+(-13)
   ii) (-10)—(+4)
   iii) (-3) + (-8)
   iv) (-10)-(+7)
a. Explain the design of a 4-bit carry look ahead adder with a neat block diagram.
b. Design and explain the 4-bit carry look-ahead adder with a diagram.
1. Write an algorithm that performs restoring division.
2. Perform division using the restoring algorithm for Dividend = 1000 and Divisor = 11.
3. Draw the circuit arrangement for binary division and perform (1000) + (11) using restoring division.
4. Perform division of number 9 by 3 using the restoring division algorithm.
1. Explain Booth’s algorithm.
2. Multiply using Booth’s Multiplication for the given Multiplicand: 0101101 and Multiplier: 0011110.
3. Solve (1 0 0 1 1) multiplied by (0 1 0 1 1) using Booth’s algorithm.
4. Solve (1001 1) multiplied by (0 1 011) using Booth’s algorithm.
1. Explain Booth's algorithm.
2. Perform (+13) x (-6) using Booth's algorithm.
3. Perform (+14) x (-6) using Booth's algorithm.
Explain the algorithm steps of non restoring method and solve the problem by non restoring method: 1000 by 11.
Explain 4-bit Carry look ahead adder.
With a neat diagram, explain the logic circuit of restoring division.
Write the steps of Booth’s algorithm.

 Additional Questions 
1. Explain different types of number representations with example and draw the addition/subtraction logic unit.
2. Design sequential circuit binary multiplier and explain the concept of carry-save addition for multiplication operation.
3. Explain IEEE standard for floating point numbers and show the IEEE floating point representation for 32-bit (single precision) number.
4. Design the 16 bit carry look ahead adder using 4-bit adder and explain the generate and propagate functions for stage i.
5. Explain Booth's algorithm to multiply two signed operands and perform the signed multiplication of numbers using booth multiplication and bit pair recording method.
6. Design a logic circuit to perform addition/subtraction of two 4 bit numbers and explain Hardwired Control Unit with a neat block diagram.
7. List out the actions needed to execute the instruction Add (R3), R1 and write the sequence of control steps needed for the execution of the same.

module_5

1. Explain single-bus organization of the data-path inside a processor with a neat diagram.
2. Explain with a neat diagram, Organization of the ‘datapath inside a processor.
1. With block diagram, explain the working of a microwave oven 
2. Explain microwave oven with a neat diagram
(i) Hardwired control
(ii) Microprogrammed control
(iii) Compare Hardwired control unit with micro-programmed control unit.
1. Write the control sequence for execution of the instruction Add (R3), R1.
2. State the steps required in execution of Add (R3), R1.
3. Write and explain the control sequence for execution of an unconditional branch instruction.
1. Explain the three-bus organization of the data path.
2. With a neat diagram explain three bus organization of the datapath.
With a neat diagram, explain a simple micro controller.
1. Analyze the single bus architecture and write the sequence of control steps to execute the instruction ADD R1, R2, R3.
2. Analyze the multiple bus architecture and write the sequence of control steps to execute the instruction ADD R1, R2, R3.
3. Write the sequence of control steps for a single bus structure for the following instructions:
   i) Add the contents of memory location NUM to register R1.
   ii) Add the contents of memory location whose address is at memory location NUM to register R1.
With a neat diagram, explain block diagram of a complete processor.
Explain with a neat diagram, processor chips of an embedded processor.

 Additional Questions 
1. Explain single-bus organization of computer and fundamental concepts.
2. Explain the information required to generate control signals and structure of micro programmed control unit.
3. Explain pipeline, its 4 stages, instruction execution steps, and hardware organization.
4. Discuss NUMA and UMA processors.
5. Explain Flynn’s classification of computers.
6. Explain attached array processor and SIMD array processor organization.
7. Explain the evaluation of the expression Ai *Bi+Ci in pipelined mode.
8. Draw and explain multiple bus organization and its advantages.
9. Draw the block diagram of the control unit organization.
10. Explain instruction pipelining and CPU pipeline.

