 What are the basic operations that can change the states of relations in the database? Explain
how the basic operations deal with constraints violations. 
 Explain the terms Super key , Candidate key and Primary key. 
 Given the following schema :
emp (fname, Lname , SSN , Bdate, address, gender , salary , superSSN , Dno)
dept (Dname,, Dnumber , MgrSSN , mgrstartdate)
dept_loc (Dnumber , Dloc)
project ( Pname, Pnumber, Ploc, Dnum)
works_on (ESSN, Pno , hours)
Dependent (ESSN , dependent. name, gender , bdate , relationship)
Give the relation algebra expression for the following :
i). Retrieve the name of the manager of each department.
ii) For each project retrieve the project number , project name and number of employee
who worked on that project.
iii) Retrieve the names of employees who work on all the project controlled by
department 5.
iv) Retrieve the name of employees who have no dependents.
v) Retrieve number of Male and Female employee working in the Company. 
 Describe the steps of an algorithm for ER to Rational mapping with example. 
 Write command that is used for table creation. Explain how constraints are specified in SQL
during table creation, with suitable example. 
 1 of 3
18CS53
Given the following schema
Emp (Fname, Lname , SSN , bdate , address, gender, salary , superSSN , dno)
dept (dname , dnumber, mgrSSN , megrstartdate)
dept_loc (dnumber, dloc)
project (Pname, Pnumber, Ploc , dnum)
works on (ESSN, Pno, hours)
dependent (ESSN , dependent_name, gender, bdate, relationship)
Give the relation algebra expression for the following :
i) Retrieve the name and address of all employees who work for ‘sports’ department.
ii) Retrieve each department number, number of employers and their average salary.
iii) List the project number, controlling department number and department manager’s last
name , address and birthdate.
iv) Retrieve the name of employees with 2 or more dependents.
v) List female employees from dno = 20 earning more than 50000. 
