1. Define the following terms :
i) Database
ii) DBMS catalog
lii) Entity
iv) Snapshot
v) Degree ofa relationship. (05 Marks)

2. Explain types of end-users with suitable examples. (05 Marks)

3. List and explain advantages of using DBMS approach. (10 Marks

4. Define the following terms
i) Cardinality
il) Weak entity
11) Program data independence
iv) Total participation
v) Value sets. (05 Marks)

5. Describe three schema architecture. Why do we need mappings between schema levels?
(05 Marks)

6. Explain different types of attributes in ER model with suitable examples for each. (10 Marks

1. List and discuss advantages of Database Management System over File Processing System.
(06 Marks)

2. Explain three Schema Architecture and reason for need of mapping among schema level.
(08 Marks)

3. Explain different types of attributes that occur in an E-R diagram model with example.
(06 Marks)

4. Explain characteristics of the Database approach. (06 Marks)

5. Discuss the different types of User friendly interfaces. (06 Marks)

6. Draw an. ER diagram for an AIRLINES database schema with atleast five entities. Also
specify primary key and structural constraints. (08 Marks)


1. Discuss the main characteristics of the database approach and how it differs from traditional
file systems. (08 Marks)

2. Explain the component module of DBMS and their interactions with the help of neat
diagram. (08 Marks)

3. Draw an ER-diagram for AIRLINE database schema with atleast five entity types and
specify primary key and structural constraints and weak entity type. (10 Marks)

4. Define the following terms:
i) Weak entity type
ii) Degree ofa relationship type
iii) Role names and recursive relationship. (06 Marks)

1. Compare DBMS and early file systems , bringing out the major advantages of the database
approach. (06 Marks)

2. With a neat block diagram, explain the architecture of a typical DBMS. (10 Marks)

3. What are the responsibilities of the DBA and the database designers? (04 Marks)

4. Define the following terms
i) Datamodel ii) Schema iii) Instance iv) Canned Transaction. (08 Marks)

5. Draw an ER diagram to represent the Election Information System based on the following
description :
In the Indian national election, a state is divided into a number of constituencies depending
upon the population of the state. Several candidates contest elections in each constituency.
Candidates may be from some party or independent. The election information system must
record the number of votes obtained by each candidate. The system also maintains the voter
list and a voter normally belongs to a particular constituency.
Note that the party details must also be taken care in the design. (12 Marks)

1. Define DBMS. Explain all the basic operations that can be performed by DBMS on a
database. (05 Marks)

2. Explain the different users of a database system. (10 Marks)

3. Describe the 3-Schema Architecture. (05 Marks)

4. Define the following terms:
i) Datamodel ii) Schema iii) Insurance  iv) Canned transaction (04 Marks)

5. Describe the structural constraints of a database system with suitable example. (10 Marks)

6. Explain all the E-R diagram notations. : (06 Marks)

1. With neat diagram, describe "ThreeSchema Architecture" and "Data Independence". (06 Marks)

2. Discuss the different types of user friendly interfaces and the types of user who typically use
each. (06 Marks)

3. With a neat diagram, explain the component modules,of DBMS and their interactions.
(08 Marks)

4. Explain with the block diagram, the different phases of database design. (06 Marks)

5. Draw an ER diagram of Banking Database. Assume your own entities (minimum 4) ,
attributes.and relationships. Specify 3NF tables. (14 Marks)

