 What is text mining? Explain the architecture. =, © 
 What is web mining? What are the various types. of f web mining? 
 OR. *,
Compute the rank values of the modes: for the following network egy in Fig.Q10(a).
Which is the highest rank mode?
= =
‘ >
* aa
*, >. »’
Fig. Ol O(a) ¢ 
 Discuss various topologies of social networks. am wy 
 . Discuss the importance of term document matrix in text mining with a neat diagram of Text
_ Mining architecture. 
 Explain the advantages and disadvantages of Naive-Bayes classifier. 
 What is support vector machine? Explain its model. 
 Discuss web structure mining and compute the rank values for the following network in
Fig.Q10(a). Which is the highest ranked node?
(y=—P)
Fig.Q10(a) 
 Discuss the application and practical consideration of social network analysis. 
 Explain briefly types of Web Mining Techniques. 
 Explain different-Text Mining Application. 
 Discuss the application and practical consideration of Social Network Analysis. 
 What is Support Vector Machine? Explain its model. 
 Discuss the application and practical consideration of Social network Analysis. 
 Explain the 3 types of Web mining. Use appropriate flow diagrams to represent the same.

 Explain the Text Mining process and the architecture. 
 Briefly explain the Data Mining. Compare text mining and data mining. 
 9 a. What is Naive Bayes Technique? Explain its model, 
 b. What is.a’Support Vector Machine? Explain its model.” 
 ¢. Mention the 3-step process of Text Mining. > 
 10 a, EXplain briefly the shrot different types Of web mining. 
 b.” »Compute the rank. values for the Nodes for the following network shown in Fig.Q10(b),
which is the Highes} ranked node. Solve the same with eight iterations.
Fig.Q10(b) 
 9 a. List and explain different types of Text Mining applications. 
 b. What is Naive-Bayes technique? Explain its model. 
 10 a. What is SVM? With a neat diagram, explain support vector machine model. 
 b. Define social network analysis? Explain different types of network topologies. —_
