 What is data warehousing? Explain the data warehouse architecture. 
 How can raw data be cleansed and transformed before it can be used for data mining.

 Explain various Business Intelligence applications. 
 How can one eyaluate the results of data mining? 
 Discuss how the data contributes to decision making in business intelligence. 
 6 a.
b.
7 a
Justify the differences between datamart and data warehouse based on following :
(i) Scope (ii) Target organization (ii!) Cost (iv) Approach (v) Time.
: 
 Consider three dimensions of data warehouse:
Bank branch; time period, Loans and two measures accounts and Total balance, where total
balance is outstanding loan amount from customers. Sketch star schema for above model.

 Explain cross-industry standard process for data mining with a neat diagram. 
 With a neat block diagram, describe the architecture of data warehouse. 
 Briefly explain Business Intelligence. Explain Business Intelligence Data Mining Cycle with
diagram. 
 Write any four Business Intelligence Application for various sectors: 
 Explain important Data Mining Techniques. : 
 What do you understand by Data Visualization? List and describe the various charts used for
data visualization. 
 What is Business Intelligence? List the different BI applications and explain in detail any
four applications. 
 Draw and explain flow of BIDM cycle. Explain the Strategic and Operational decisions.

 Explain CRISP DM cycle, with neat diagram. 
 Define Data warehouse and illustrate design considerations for data warehouse. 
 Write any four business Intelligence Application for various: sectors. 
 Explain the star schema design of Data Warehousing with an’example. 
 What is Confusion Matrix? 9 
 OR ee
Explaiit CRISP- DM cycle: witha a et diagram. , 
 What do you understand by the term Data Visualization? How is it important in Big data
Analytics? 
 Differentiate betwee Data Mining and bid Warehousing. 
 5 a. List and explain any 3 areas of applications of Business Intelligence (BI). 
 b. Define Data Warehouse. Explain design consideration for data warehouse. 
 6 a. What is Data Mining? What are supervised and unsupervised learning techniques? 
 b. What is Data visualization? Explain how visualization tools are used. 
