 Explain with a neat diagram the workflow of a Map reduce model. Also write a mapper and a reducer code to find the number of occurrence of the word * ‘data™ in the file “Filetxt”.
 Explain the following
(i) Name mode high availability
(ii) Speculation execution "
(iii) Difference between two version of hadoop. 
 An enterplise has 500 GB of unstructured data to be processed. Suggest a suitable
architeeture for this work. Explain with a diagram all the-components of the file system
supperted by your solution. ? 
 Write HDFS commands for the following operations : By 5
(i) to find the version of HDES m
(ii) download and install Hadoop
(iii) to run postmap service
(iv) to run zookeeper controller failover dacnion «
(v) to startand stop namenode and datanodes
(vi) to run mapperand reducer with input file 
 What is HDFS? With a neat diagram explain the components of HDFS (Hadoop Distributed
File Systems) ; 
 With a neat diagram, discuss the steps MapReduce parallel data flow with example of word
count. 
 zi OR
Explain Block replication in HDFS and its advantages. 
 Explain the following roles in HDFS deployment with a diagram:
(i) High Availability (ii) Name Node Federation. 
 With example, explain the following general HDFS commands:
(i) HDFS version (ii) Listefiles (ili) Make directory
(iv) Copy files (v) Delete a file 
 What do you understand by HDFS? Explain its components with neat diagram. —_ 
 Explain any eight user HDFS commands. 
 Explain HDFS NAME NODE, Federation , NFS Gateway , Check point and Backups ,
HDFS Snapshots. 
 With a neat diagram, explain Apache Hadoop parallel Map Reduce data flow. 
 What is HDFS? Explain its components with a neat diagram. 
 Explain HDFS safemode and rack awareness, with neat diagram. 
 What is MapReduce Program? Explain MapReduce parallel data flow, with neat functional
diagram. 
 What is Nano node federation? Explain NaneNode high availability design with diagram.

 How does the Hadoop MapReduce, Data flow work for a gore count program? Give an
example. 
 Briefly explain HDFS Name Federation, NFS Gateway, Snapshots, Checkpoint and
Backups. 4 
 OR ty
What do you understand by HDFS? Explain its components with a neat diagram. 
 Bring out the concepts of HDFS block as a with an example. 
 1 a. Discuss the various system roles in an HDFS components or deployment. 
 b. Describe HDFS block replication with an example. 
 OR ee ae
2 a. Briefly explain HDFS NameNode Federation, NFS.gateway, Snapshots. 
 b. Write a program to Read and Write HDFS file using java. 
