module_1

1. What is HDFS? Explain its components with a neat diagram.
2. Bring out the concepts of HDFS block with an example.
1. Explain Apache Hadoop parallel Map Reduce data flow with a diagram.
2. How does Hadoop MapReduce data flow work, with examples of word count and gore count programs?
1. HDFS NameNode 
2. HDFS Federation 
3. NFS Gateway 
4. Checkpoint 
5. Backups 
6. HDFS Snapshots

 Additional Questions 
1. Explain the workflow of a MapReduce model with a neat diagram and write a mapper and reducer code to find the word occurrence in a file.
2. Explain NameNode high availability, Speculation execution, and the difference between two versions of Hadoop.
3. Explain eight user HDFS commands, HDFS safemode, and rack awareness with a neat diagram.
4. Explain Nano node federation and NameNode high availability design with a diagram.
5. Suggest a suitable architecture for processing 500 GB of unstructured data and explain the components of the file system supported by the solution.
6. Discuss system roles in HDFS components, describe HDFS block replication, and write a program to read and write HDFS files using Java.
7. Explain Block replication in HDFS, its advantages, and the roles in HDFS deployment, including High Availability and Name Node Federation.
8. Explain general HDFS commands such as version, list files, make directory, copy files, and delete a file.

module_2

1. Explain any Nine different YARN application frameworks.
2. What is YARN and its application framework?
3. Describe the various features of Hadoop YARN administration.
4. Explain the structure of Yarn Application and YARN Distributed- Shell.
1. Explain Apache Squoop Import and Export method.
2. Explain Apache Sqoop Import and Export methods with neat diagram.
1. Explain the Hadoop tool to acquire data streams.
2. Explain Apache Ambari service view of a Hadoop Cluster.
3. With a neat diagram, explain the Apache Oozie workflow for Hadoop architecture and its role in the Hadoop ecosystem, including Oozie DAG workflow and its types of nodes.

 Additional Questions 
1. How do you run MapReduce and Message Passing Interface on YARN architecture?
2. What is the significance of Apache Pig in Hadoop context, its main components, and working?
3. Explain Oozie DAG workflow and its types of nodes with a diagram.
4. Discuss the three components of Apache Frame (or Hive, assuming a typo).

module_3

1. What is data warehousing and explain its architecture?
2. Define Data Warehouse and explain design considerations.
3. Justify the differences between datamart and data warehouse based on scope, target organization, cost, approach, and time.
4. Describe the architecture of a data warehouse with a block diagram.
1. What is Business Intelligence?
2. List and explain Business Intelligence applications.
3. List areas of applications of Business Intelligence (BI).
1. What is Data Mining and its techniques, including supervised and unsupervised learning?
2. How can one evaluate the results of data mining?
3. Explain the cross-industry standard process for data mining.
1. What do you understand by Data Visualization?
2. List and describe the various charts used for data visualization.
3. How is Data Visualization important in Big Data Analytics and what role do visualization tools play?
1. Discuss how data contributes to decision making in Business Intelligence.
2. Explain Business Intelligence and the Business Intelligence Data Mining Cycle.

 Additional Questions 
1. How can raw data be cleansed and transformed before it can be used for data mining.
2. Explain CRISP DM cycle with a diagram.
3. Explain the star schema design of Data Warehousing with an example.
4. What is Confusion Matrix?
5. Differentiate between Data Mining and Data Warehousing.

module_4

1. Explain Decision tree and write the algorithm to construct a decision tree.
2. Explain Apriori Algorithm and Association Rule with examples of Support, Confidence, and Lift.
3. Create a decision tree for the given data set and solve the problem using the model.
4. How does the Apriori algorithm work for association rule mining, explain with an example.
5. Employ decision tree learning for the given dataset to predict the Class Category-Loan approved or not.
1. List down the advantages and disadvantages of artificial neural networks.
2. Explain the design principles of Artificial Neural Network.
3. List and explain the steps for developing an ANN (Artificial Neural Network).
1. What is Unsupervised Machine Learning concept? Explain K — Means clustering techniques, with suitable example.
2. What is unsupervised learning? 
3. Describe 3 applications of cluster analysis.
1. Explain Regression and list its key steps.
2. What are the advantages and disadvantages of Regression Models?

 Additional Questions 
1. Describe three criteria for choosing a splitting variable.
2. Develop a regression model for house price based on size and find the house price for a size of 152000 sq. ft.
3. Find the affinity among the given items and suggest which items can be marketed as a single package.
4. Differentiate between Linear, Non-linear, and Logistic Regression models.

module_5

1. What is text mining and explain its architecture?
2. What is web mining and its types?
3. Explain the text mining process and compare it with data mining.
4. What are the types of text mining applications and web mining techniques?
1. Discuss the application and practical consideration of Social Network Analysis.
2. Define social network analysis and explain different types of network topologies.
1. What is Support Vector Machine? Explain its model.
2. What is SVM? With a neat diagram, explain support vector machine model.
1. Compute the rank values of the modes for the network in Fig.Q10(a) and determine the highest rank mode.
2. Compute the rank values for the nodes in the network shown in Fig.Q10(b) and determine the highest ranked node with eight iterations.
3. Discuss web structure mining and compute the rank values for the network in Fig.Q10(a) to find the highest ranked node.
1. What is Naive Bayes Technique and its model?
2. What are the advantages and disadvantages of Naive-Bayes classifier?

 Additional Questions 

